Javascript Basics
Javascript is a cross-platform, object orbited scripting language. Javascript is extremely popular	for a variety of reasons. It is a small lightweight language allowing maximum flexibility for developers to take it in a bunch of different directions. Javascript lives inside a host environment (a web browser or node server), it can be connected to the objects of these environments to provide programmatic control over them.

Variable Declaration Javascript variables are containers for storing data values -imagine a cup you fill with coffee, the cup holds the coffee, a variable holds a value. All javascript variables must be identified with unique names. These unique names are called identifiers. Var x;

Variable Assignment Assignment	operators assign values to Javascript variables -our cup can now have coffee poured ini it, giving out variable a value to hold. The = assignment operator assigns a value to a variable. Var x =10;

Data Types Data Types are an important concept; to be able to operate on variables you need to know the data type. There are six data types that are javascript primitives: Boolean -true or false; null - null aka nothing : Number -42 or 3.14159; String -“Coding Dojo Rocks:;
Array - [1,’Coding’,2, ‘Dojo’]; and Object - {first_name: ‘Jane’, last_name:’Doe’}

Conditionals When you write code, you want ton perform different actions for different actions	for different decisions- hitting different code blocks based on values or conditions that have been met. You can use conditional statements in your code to accomplish this. There are the following conditional statements: if a specified conditions is true, do this in our code block; else if to specify a new condition to test, if the first condition is false; else we execute this block of code;

Loops There are many different kinds of loops in every programming language, but they all essentially do the same thing: they will repeat an action some number of times. Imagine you have to run a mile, well you run around the track four times and then you stop. That’s a loop!

Function Functions are an encapsulation of a code block. When we call our function this will run that code block. Think of it as a list of instructions. As an example imagine we are putting together a desk for Ikea, we open the instruction manual and get started, first we screw the legs to the table tops next we place the table the right way. Done! We finished our instructions. Sadly there are a ton more tables to do so lets call our function over and over again. 








	Javascript Overview
		Variable Overview
		Variable Assignment
		Data Type
		Conditionals
		Loops
		Function
	Projects
	Assignments
	Quiz



For more useful information check out this url: Javascript!
